Currently, thousands
of known genetic diseases are organized based on which genes
are impacted and the resulting symptoms.
Imagine if there were another way to classify them...
into a few universal diseases with a shared cause...
a cause that could be addressed with a single medicine.
About 10% of patients
with a genetic disease have a single type of mutation
that leads to the presence of a premature termination
or stop codon that triggers translational machinery
to stop early and produce an incomplete protein
that is poorly functional or non-functional, causing disease.
As many as 30 million people worldwide diagnosed
with a variety of genetic diseases have a premature stop codon
and can be classified as having stop codon disease.
Alltrna is developing engineered tRNA medicines
that allow translational machinery to read
through premature termination codons, restoring production
of any affected protein regardless of the disease it causes.
As a result, instead of waiting for the development
of individual therapies for each genetic disease,
patients across hundreds or thousands of rare
and ultra rare conditions could potentially be treated
with a single tRNA.